Story Recapped here.
Today, I’m going to explain an action, adventure,
and comedy film called, “Small Soldiers.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Globotech Industries, the top weapon defense
contractor, has just acquired Heartland Toy
Company as part of their big move to incorporate
battlefield technology with home consumer
products.
Heartland’s head toy designers, Irwin Wayfair
and Larry Benson meet with the executive assistant,
Ms. Kegel, ahead of their big meeting.
She briefs them about the company and leads
them to a room.
The designers meet Globotech C.E.O. Gil Mars
who wants to hear their ideas about creating
a new toy line.
Irwin nervously presents his design, a team
of hybrid monsters called the Gorgonites,
lead by a character named Archer.
On the other hand, Larry swiftly delivers
his design, a team of toy soldiers whom he
calls the Commando Elite and is led by Chip
Hazard.
Gil selects Larry’s idea for the project
and makes Irwin’s Gorgonites the enemies
of the Commando Elite.
He then takes the idea a step further and
orders a team to create a toy that moves and
talks back as the children play with it.
These will be actual live-action toys capable
of “playing back.”
After the meeting, Ms. Kegel informs the two
that Gil has given them three months to complete
the entire project.
She also gives them their security cards and
unique passwords to the company’s online
account.
Later that night as they work on the designs,
Larry accidentally forgets his password and
inputs Irwin’s password to search for internal
parts.
He then orders thousands of military-enhanced
microprocessor chips.
The new toy line is soon completed and is
packed for shipping.
Meanwhile, on the other side of town, Alan
Abernathy tends to his family’s toy store.
The business has been slow and the store is
on the verge of closing.
A Heartland delivery truck stops in front
of the store and the delivery guy, Joe, lets
Alan sign on a couple of shipments for their
store.
Curious by the new toy line, Alan activates
Chip Hazard and Archer.
Alan is excited to see that the toys can move,
talk, are voice-activated, and even have a
two-way radio system that acts as a walkie-talkie.
He asks Joe if he could lend him the set and
he’ll pay him the money by the time the
whole set is sold.
Joe agrees and gives him a whole set.
Alan leaves the toy in the backroom as he
sets up the rest of the action figures in
the shop.
Unbeknownst to him, Chip Hazard and Archer
can move on their own and are about to start
a war.
Back at the front counter, Alan’s neighbor
and biggest crush, Christy Fimple arrive with
her little brother, Timmy, to pick out a toy
for his birthday.
Timmy sees the new toys and decides that it’s
what he wants for his big day.
Christy asks Alan to reserve Chip Hazard for
her brother and the two leaves.
Alan looks out the store in dismay as he sees
Christy’s boyfriend, Brad, park by the curb
to kiss her.
He returns to the back room and puts the toys
back in their boxes.
He finishes setting up the display, closes
the shop, and brings his father’s ticket.
At their home, Alan’s father, Stuart, is
in a panic state as he prepares his things
for his trip to attend a business seminar.
His wife, Irene, tries to calm him down, but
his nerves are rattled again by a ruckus coming
from the Fimples’ yard.
It turns out, Christy’s father, Phil is
hacking down a tree branch that’s blocking
his satellite dish.
Stuart curses him out but his wife ushers
him inside.
Alan arrives just in time to give his father
his plane ticket.
Stuart thanks him, bids them goodbye, and
leaves for his seminar.
A little later, Alan is working on his homework
when he finds one of the Gorgonites, Archer,
inside his backpack.
He activates the toy and is shocked when Archer
suddenly talks back and repeats his name.
Thinking that it must be his imagination,
Alan goes back to studying.
Meanwhile, back at the toy store, Chip Hazard
breaks free from his box and frees the other
members of the Commando Elite, Butch Meathook,
Nick Nitro, Brick Bazooka, Link Static, and
Kip Killagin.
They set out on their mission to destroy all
Gorgonites.
Back at the house, Alan falls asleep studying
and Archer comes back to life.
He opens the computer and starts searching
for a land called Gorgon.
Suddenly, the cat climbs up on the desk and
starts licking Archer.
Alan wakes up and discovers that Archer is
an actual live-action toy that has a mind
of its own.
Archer tells Alan that their only goal is
to set the Gorgonites free.
Back at the toy store, Chip heads the Commando
Elite team and breaks the Gorgonites from
their boxes.
An all-out war starts and continues into the
deep of the night.
When morning comes, Alan finds all the toys
missing from their boxes.
Archer tells him that the Commando Elite must
have fought them through the night.
All that was left were pieces of one of the
Gorgonites, Troglokhan.
Christy arrives and assumes that the store
has been robbed and helps Alan clean up.
They bond quickly and soon learn that they
have more interests in common than they think.
Stuart arrives and Alan almost gets away with
it until he finds out that the toy ship is
broken.
He also realizes that most of his workshop
tools are gone.
As Christy leaves, she hands him Archer, whom
she kept away from his dad’s sight.
Alan stuffs the toy in his backpack and rides
his bike home.
Unbeknownst to him, the Commando Elite is
keeping an eye on him and is launching an
ambush.
They launch Brick onto the bike but he’s
soon chased by a dog.
Alan fends the dog away as Brick makes his
way to the boy’s backpack.
He loses his grip and finds himself at the
wheel again.
The bike hits a pothole and Brick crashes
onto the road in pieces.
The Commando Elite tapes Brick back together
and discovers Alan’s house.
Meanwhile, Alan calls customer service and
complains about the toys but no one would
take him seriously.
Feeling frustrated, he jumps into bed and
puts on his headphones, unwilling to talk
to Archer.
At Globotech, Larry had just finished announcing
their new toy line when Irwin played him the
tape of Alan’s voicemail complaint.
Irwin tells him that they can’t have dangerous
toys on the market or else they’ll be forced
to recall the line.
Larry gives in and Irwin realizes that his
colleague placed munition chips from the Department
of Defense in children’s toys.
Back home while Alan is asleep, Archer explores
the house.
He opens the closet and finds Chip Hazard.
The Commando Elite jumps on him and ties him
up.
In the bedroom, Alan wakes up and finds the
soldiers torturing Archer over the sink.
The toys run away as he frees Archer.
He then takes Nick Nitro and places him inside
the sink, destroying his plastic legs.
Alan’s parents come out to check the commotion
and find him with a bleeding hand.
As his parents reprimand him, Nick Nitro drags
his body up the sink and escapes.
Alan tries to explain that it was the toys
but as expected, his parents don’t believe
him.
He ends up confessing that Joe lent him the
toys and he was planning to pay him back.
They think he’s gone insane and send him
to his room.
In the bathroom, Alan is mad at Archer for
not helping him out, but the toy reminded
him that he was the one who told him to shut
up.
The two then form a plan to find the Gorgonites
before the soldiers do.
In the garage, Chip Hazard rendezvous with
his team.
Nick Nitro joins them but his battery has
already worn out.
They then plan to enhance their weapons with
the tools in the garage.
The next day, Alan and Archer are back at
the toy store.
They think about where the Gorgonites might
be hiding and Alan realizes that they must
be in the trash.
He goes to the dumpster behind the store and
finds the rest of Archer’s team, Ocula,
Punch-it, Scratch-it, Slamfist, and Troglokhan.
It turns out they fixed up Troglokhan using
the broken radio from the store.
Meanwhile, back at Globotech, Larry and Irwin
talk to Ralph, the scientist who crafted the
microprocessors.
They learn that the chips are almost perfect,
developing a sense of intelligence through
learning, except for one key flaw: they can
be destroyed by an electromagnetic pulse.
Back at the house, Alan and the Gorgonites
hang out in his room just as Christy calls.
He invites her out but she turns him down,
telling him that she’s already dating Brad.
As they innocently flirt, Chip Hazard hacks
into the phone wire and listens in on their
conversation, and learns that the Gorgonites
are alive and in Abernathy’s residence.
The soldiers finish creating their weapons
and set out for their assignments.
Alan then learns that the group's main purpose
is to look for their home, the Isle of Gorgon.
He feels bad for telling them that the Isle
of Gorgon doesn’t exist and they’ll have
to find their own home.
Meanwhile across the yard at the Fimples’,
Phil and his wife, Marion, are settling in
for a night in front of their brand new, high-tech
television set.
The soldiers sneak into the room and fire
a few sleeping pills into their drinks.
The couple soon falls asleep and the troop
sets camp in Christy’s bedroom.
Timmy arrives and tries to play with them
but they quickly attack the boy and tie him
up before throwing him into the closet.
The troop soon finds Christy’s doll collection.
They integrate the dolls into their army by
recreating Nick Nitro’s chip into each of
the dolls’ brains.
Now, the microchip has turned the dolls into
an army of violent zombies ready for action.
Back at the house, Alan teaches Archer about
the wind and how there are some things that
you can’t see, but it doesn’t mean that
they don’t exist.
Archer feels reassured that if they keep looking,
they will eventually find the Isle of Gorgon.
When Christy gets home, she doesn’t notice
her parents knocked out and her brother in
the closet.
She rejects an invitation from Brad to hang
out and heads up to her bedroom.
When she opens the door, she’s shocked to
see the assembly of zombie dolls that have
formed.
She screams as the dolls take her down by
the feet and tie her up.
It’s time for the doll’s revenge.
Brad hears Christy’s scream and rushes to
her bedroom only to find her overtaken by
the dolls.
The toys lunge at Brad and he throws away
The Commando Elite arrives and fires a flamethrower
at him, making him trip all the way down the
stairs.
Brad takes his flaming pants and runs out
of the house.
At Abernathy’s house, the soldiers shoot
a videotape through Alan’s bedroom window.
It’s a recording of Christy.
They’ve forced her in front of the camera
and are making her deliver a message to them.
In exchange for Christy’s safety, Alan must
hand over the Gorgonites to them.
Feeling determined, Alan conjures up a plan
of counterattack.
He delivers a box labeled Gorgonites in front
of the Fimples’ house.
With the soldiers distracted, he runs to the
backyard and fires a rocket that sends Archer
parachuting into the Fimples’ house.
Archer opens the back door and lets Alan in.
They find the Fimples asleep and head over
to Christy’s bedroom while the soldiers
drill a stick of dynamite into the box.
Alan is disturbed to see the dolls and they
try to take him over.
Archer cuts off the rope from Christy’s
hand and now that she’s free, she starts
hammering the toys with a baton.
The box outside explodes, but much to the
troops’ dismay, it’s only a decoy.
Christy gives Alan a kiss for saving her and
another kiss to officially mark their relationship.
When they run downstairs, the soldiers fire
a flamethrower at them.
The two escape through the bedroom window.
As they run, an explosion comes from the garage
and the troop drives out in their weapon-optimized
vehicles.
They fire at Alan’s leg and take him down.
Christy takes the motorcycle and rescues Alan.
They escape but the soldiers are now in pursuit,
firing at them with their weapons.
Chip Hazard launches a rocket at a tree that
narrowly misses the two.
They fire another rocket, this time taking
down a lamp post.
The two drive through a ditch and destroy
several of the Commando Elite as they crash
and burn into a canal.
Unbeknownst to them, Chip Hazard is still
alive.
He washes up at a nearby parking lot and sees
the factory creating the Commando Elite toy
line.
He has just formed a new plan to retaliate.
He sneaks into one of the trucks and threatens
Joe with a blade.
By the time Alan and Christy arrive home,
the Fimples are already in a big argument
with the Abernathys.
They try to explain the situation to their
parents but they won’t believe them.
As the Fimples try to leave, Larry and Irwin
arrive.
They confirm what Alan has been alleging all
along.
Stuart punches Larry in the face and tells
him that his toys almost killed his son.
On the other hand, Irwin is delighted to see
his designs come alive.
Suddenly, the lights go off.
The soldiers have cut off the power supply.
They spot the toy truck outside the house
and see more Commando Elite soldiers rallying
up.
They are now in big trouble.
Archer tells Alan that they have to surrender
because the Gorgonites must lose, it’s what
they were created to do.
Phil goes out, waving a white flag of surrender,
but is quickly pushed back into the house
by the overwhelming number of toys plus their
huge flamethrower.
The speakers start blasting loud music and
the soldiers aim nails through the window.
The humans and Gorgonites get down as the
living room is trashed.
They barricade the window and get back but
they soon launch a couple of fireballs into
the kitchen.
Alan grabs a curtain and starts dampening
out the fire while the others hide or guard
the windows.
Irene grabs a racket as Stuart barricades
the door.
As they launch more fireballs, Irene tosses
them back with her racket, taking down a few
of the soldiers.
The group formulates a plan and Irwin reveals
to them the toys’ weakness which is an electromagnetic
pulse.
The only problem is they have to create a
pulse or a field that is big enough to take
all the toys down.
The soldiers blow down their fence and bring
in more weapons.
Alan suggests climbing up to the two transformers
outside and fusing them with a metal tool,
causing an overload and a magnetic field to
erupt and finally get them rid of the elites.
As he grabs the tool, Stuart comes in and
begs his son to not go through with it.
Alan asks him to trust him one more time and
his father eventually gives in.
The group takes cover and Irene successfully
destroys their fireball launcher.
Christy sneaks out the back window with Larry
and Irwin so that they can turn on all the
electronics they own.
Irene and Phil are forced to share the closets
with Marion and Timmy.
Meanwhile, Stuart creates a diversion for
the soldiers as Alan runs out.
They fire a nail gun at them and Stuart gets
hit on the leg.
The Gorgonites are now faced with a decision.
They must help defend the humans and fight
their destinies.
As the father and son prepare to get hit by
nails, the Gorgonites appear to their defense
and start taking out the toys one by one.
Alan tells Archer that they should prepare
themselves because this force will also fry
them too.
Archer tells him to go and Alan makes a run
for it as his father is caught in a net.
At the Fimples’, Christy calls the police
as the men turn on the electronics.
Alan has now climbed his way up the electric
pole and comes face to face with Chip Hazard
who starts firing at him.
He makes him drop his tool but Chip’s helicopter
malfunctions and the vehicle dives towards
Phil’s satellite dish.
As Chip steps on Alan’s fingers, he savors
the moment for his plan is now coming to fulfillment.
Archer looks up and sees Alan struggling and
fires an arrow to help him.
He launches into the air right next to Chip.
A fight ensues and Archer is quickly overtaken
by the soldier.
Chip pushes Archer off the pole and celebrates
his victory.
Alan has now gained hold to the pole and grabs
Chip and places him between the transformers.
Chip screams as the transformers fuse and
turns into overload, releasing a large spark
that sends Alan down to the ground.
He wakes up and sees the horde of toys coming
towards him and then his savior, Christy with
the lawnmower.
She rescues him again just in time as the
transformers explode, letting out a huge magnetic
field and taking out all the toys almost immediately.
When morning comes, the police and an ambulance
arrive as well as security from the Globotech
company.
As the families clean up the mess, a helicopter
arrives and Gil Mars approaches them.
He gives them cheques as compensation for
the damage and in an effort to avoid being
sued.
Alan takes the time to apologize to Joe for
what he put him through, but Joe forgives
him.
This doesn’t make Alan feel any better who’s
still looking for the Gorgonites.
On the upside, he’s got a new girlfriend
now and he gives Christy another kiss after
everything they’ve been through.
A few hours later, Alan is still cleaning
up the mess in the yard.
He finds Archer’s bow and then lifts up
Phil’s satellite dish.
To his surprise, he finds the Gorgonites alive
and well.
They have survived the blast.
The Gorgonites celebrate their victory and
for once aren’t feeling like losers.
Alan soon takes them to a river by the woods
and gives them his dad’s toy boat.
Now that the Gorgonites are free, they must
sail on to find their own Isle of Gorgon.
Alan pushes the boat into the water and bids
goodbye to his friends.